Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/uofmn/comments/1nx2zvn/
Finding apartment UofM
Hi everyone! I just wanted some help with finding an apartment. I’m from out of state and a first year and had no idea we had to start finding apartments so early because everyone I know that goes to college in from the state I lived in and they always find apartments later on the year or in summer. I was wondering if anyone could give tips or any suggestions to live in.

Some background I live in Bailey but all my classes are in East and West Bank and I’m gonna assume the same for my second year. I also currently have a person who had agreed to be my roommate and another person who might ask me to room with them to! Also the person who agreed is also from out of state.

Any help with appreciated!

---

Comment 1
A couple of popular spots that people live in/around: dinkytown, Como, West Bank, prospect park, stadium village and a few places that are “on campus” (like the station on Washington, the hub, the 700 on Washington)

I live in dinky so I’m biased, but I enjoy it here! My suggestion (and what I did) is to meet up with your potential roommates/s and talk about locations you’d like to live in, look into apartments in those spaces, and tour them. Also don’t forget to talk about amenities! In unit washer and dryer was a big must have for my roommate and I, personally.

---

Comment 2
An out-of-state senior who has been renting for years here.

If you already have a group, use Zillow Rentals and Apartments.com to look for options. Anything that is listed on Facebook is going to be listed there as well. If you need more roommates, I heavily suggest using Roomies.

If you are specifically looking for an apartment, Prospect Park is probably your best option as they are usually cheaper, are on the green line, and don't have the same slumlord problems as many of the near-campus options have. Dinkytown/Stadium Village are also closer, but they tend to have worse building management and higher rent prices. DO NOT LIVE IN THE QUAD, I REPEAT, DO NOT LIVE IN THE QUAD.

If you are looking for a house (which I heavily suggest), Como is your best option, especially if you can nab a house near the 3 bus line on Como Avenue. An important note, picking a house is more about picking a landlord than picking amenities. Picking a good landlord is usually hit or miss. What worked best for me was trying to talk to the current tenants (if they were in the house) about the quality of maintenance. If the landlord is shitty, the tenants will usually have no problem telling you (even right in front of the LL.) Another tip is to avoid landlords who have other people tour the property with you. DO NOT rent under Tammie. She'll have some of the cheapest/outwardly best houses, but trust me, she is one of the biggest slumlords around.

Feel free to DM me if you want to discuss more.


---

Comment 3
What is roomies?

---

Comment 4
My kids did not sign up for their freshman year until July and there was plenty. They skipped the dorms. They are in their sophomore year and one stayed at the Hub , the other went with the brand new Accolade. They are both very happy.

---

Comment 5
Sometimes apartment complexes will have sales in the spring/summer too since they want to fill things up

---

Comment 6
I'm a mom of a sophomore and the school has a webinar on this subject tonight. I suggest you register and listen in for some good information. We attended it last year.

Comment Image

---

Comment 7
My mom registered for that! I wish I could join myself but I’m literally so busy today that I can’t .

---

Comment 8
I remember feeling the same way my first year. 

Looking back, I can say that you don’t have to find an apartment right now at all. Apartment complexes make it seem like you do so that you sign early but it really doesn’t matter much.

You actually might get a better deal by waiting until they’re desperate to fill their available units.

The university releases admissions decisions all the way until March and some people don’t know for sure that they’ll be attending until maybe June before classes start. And they still find housing! So of course you don’t need to sign a lease in October or November. 

---

Comment 9
Don’t feel like you need to rush getting an apartment right now, you still have a lot of time and I’d wait on signing anything with your selected roommates this early into the year as I know so many people who signed super early with people freshman year and decided later on that they aren’t friends anymore after being locked into a lease. What I would consider doing is selecting an area you’d like to live in like Dinkytown, stadium village etc and pick and general budget. This way you can narrow down your search and find something that’s in the right price point. I do know some people who live in como but I gotta say about that is most of those landlords suckkkkkk and never fix anything; you also have to furnish the whole place which is also pricey