Apartment: University Commons
Source: 7University Commons Google Reviews
---

Review 1
Rating: 5/5
Luwam gave a very nice tour of a furnished 4 bedroom, 2 bathroom unit. Everything looks clean and new. It’s nice to have a washer and dryer in the unit. I was surprised there is a hot tub there. I appreciated the snacks offered! I like the location to the U of M-very convenient.

--- 

Review 2
Rating: 1/5
Suppose you're a student and looking for an apartment. Please stay away from this student housing. Management is terrible and the staff is bluntly rude. You might think it's a good deal since the rent is cheaper, but YOU GOT IT ALL WRONG., you will have plenty of issues and they will charge ridiculous amounts. Save yourself from stress, look for another apartment, and you will have peace of mind. Management won't take accountability. I could rate it as a no-star it will be it.

---

Review 3
Rating: 1/5
Many cars has been stolen past few days in this community... Even everyone reported to the management they didn't take necessary actions yet....Total 5 incidents happened in this September.. Management knows this..
My close friends car yesterday night they tried to stole..

Why management is not responding for thisss????

Close the back side gate after evening hours.

As you're collecting money for parking.. It's your responsibility to take necessary action.. Keep gates to. Enter or do something...

This should be an end .. We are students and we need safety...

Seems there is no safety at all....

Need immediate response and action for this..

---

Review 4
Rating: 3/5
I wish there were a zero-star option because this apartment doesn’t deserve even one.

I moved in today and have not been able to rest due to constant noise from perhaps the fan and bugs flying around in the living room, bedroom, and kitchen sink area. Even after the cleaner's efforts, the bug problem persists, which is highly concerning.

University Commons seems to mislead potential tenants with unclear policies and unfulfilled promises. If a serene environment and your well-being are priorities for you, I strongly recommend looking elsewhere. This experience has been deeply disappointing, and I henceforth do not suggest renting here.

I am circling back a year after I left this review to post an update.
So after my complaints, University Commons reassigned me to a different unit. This day makes it exactly one year of my stay at UC. Surprisingly enough to myself as well, I have gotten five of my friends to sign a contract with UC. (At this point I should be a UC ambassador). Why? What changed?
1. The reallocation of unit.
2. I'm fascinated with the mirrors in the bedroom and in the bathroom area. I also love the bedroom for its spaciousness.
3. The maintenance is always swift. I haven't had any unresolved or delayed issue. One of their maintenance staff is absolutely kind. He goes all out to perform extra tasks and gives useful advice.
4. The rental price is relatively okay. (I would have said cheap but for point #2 below).
5. I also love the gym and in-built laundry facilities.

What do I dislike?
1. The noise from the AC at the head of my bed. Nevertheless, it is somewhat better than the noise from the AC of the neighboring appartement (The Arrow). I wish there is a way for UC to reduce the noise from its AC outlet and also filter the huge one coming from The Arrow.
2. The charges for water, sewer and storm. I wish they are all incooperated in the rent.
3. The electricity billing system. I wish there was a way for every resident to be accountable for their energy consumption, because it is somewhat disheartening paying for other's exuberant use of energy, especially when highly energy consuming appliances are brought into the appartement.

In view of the above highlighted dislikes, I am adding 2 stars to the initial one star I had in the last one year.

I am renting here for another year and again, in a 4b2b. I hope it gets much more better this time. Until then, my recommendation is to move in with people you can live with as roommates, because roommate's disputes could be additional areas of concern.

---

Review 5
Rating: 5/5
Jackie did an amazing job of showing us the apartment, the entire property, and answering a LOT of questions about the lease. Thank you Jackie!

---

Review 6
Rating: 5/5
My experience with visiting The University Commons was wonderful! If you plan to visit or If you plan to live here, make sure to connect with Paris!

---

Review 7
Rating: 1/5
Speed bumps damaged my car. I drive a regular sedan. I was going at a crawl. Whoever chose foot tall speed bump should be crucified on the spot.

---

Review 8
Rating: 1/5
You get what you pay for. The reviews about them looking for ways to tack on charges to bills is very valid. The rooms are decent but invest in good ear plugs if you want to go to bed at a specified time. The smell of weed on the weekends is higher than the students. The only reason to stay is because of the affordability but then again if they just keep adding on charges you can just start taking the things you paid extra for on lease off to you know balance it out that way rather than steady fees from say a garage you can instead force them to try to find ways to nickel and dime residents. Parents should know the neighborhood is still close to south Minneapolis crime and at some point in the lease you will have surprise fees. The red flags is the consistent 3* rating across my numerous properties listed on American campus websites, you'll also note the pattern of reviews taking about surprise charges. Clearly this is going to be a larger issue than taking on a single misinformed manager. Oh the first time I had an issue I removed the review this time I will not be doing such. I will be petty and I'll target them like they did me taking random photos of me on the property. They were kind enough to submit that evidence through email to file away for later tho.
The first thing to note is the two completely outrageous speed bumps entering and leaving the property not only are they bad enough for cars bottoms to hit even at a crawl you can hear that too ! They also have other bumps normal that would slow traffic but because nobody is willing to risk vehicles they drive or try to drive around them making walking anywhere but the sidewalks unpredictable not to mention the blind corners around the garages. You MUST PAY FOR PARKING so you may not park your car on property at all all without the additional $150-200 a month parking. There is a parking garage nearby on oak st...you can't park in it overnight unless your a student paying similar prices sometimes a little less. They do tow nightly, sometimes multiple times and all that beeping and noise is just a part of it. Also noted whilst the package system is good it's not theft proof if a package is delivered on a Sunday except it to sit out front of the leasing off and may the odds be in your favor the staff intercept it or you do before the neighborhood porch criminals make rounds. The staff is made up of students/residents so don't expect much in regards to them being knowledgeable about anything of complexity not covered in a slideshow. You'll also be asked about renewal every two weeks at every "community event" they offer they basically turn it into a renew because we bought you lunch guilt trip. Living here is fine enough if you understand your paying to sleep in a room downtown near the university and repeat that montra each morning.

--- 

Review 9
Rating: 2/5
Okay, here is my experience here at University Commons:

I was in a 2x2 private on the first floor.

I will detail my experience on a 1/10 scale covering rooms, amenities, location, matenienance, bathrooms, and the kitchen.

Rooms: 9/10
Rooms are honestly quite nice, they're spacious and have tons of storage within them. I do recommend getting a rug for the bedroom floor as the floor can get a little cold. Closests in my apartment are massive, I do know they can be a bit smaller in other units but overall, I'd say they're above average. My only qwerk with the room is that I wish the ceiling light wasn't as warm. But you can fix that with some lamps and/or lighting strips.

Amenities + Experience: 1/10
The hot tub (when functioning), the ping pong table, and the pool table are the only things that make this a 2. The "Academic Success Center" is a joke, it's literally a depressing side room they didn't know what to do with. There are no good study spaces within this apartment complex. The gym is fine, gets the job done but lacks choices and options for working out. The internet is quite spotty, it cuts in and out- I was stressing during online exams (ofc they were at 8 am). ONE LAST THING, I don't know which catagory to put this under but I had to evacuate my apartment SEVERAL TIMES, due to the fire alarm and only ONCE was it truly necessary (a pipe burst). But when you are forced to evacuate in the middle of the night TWICE you lose patience real fast. I will lastly mention that the garabage and recycling trucks will likely wake you up.

Location: 5/10
The only thing that saves the location is the light rail (a 5-10 run/walk) there are no bus stops or any good bike lanes to take to safely get to class. I often shared the road with cars. What is nice is the footbridge by the fourth and third building that goes over the road but then you gotta go back to make progress. But again, that is nice. As a CSOM student, this apartment was not the move, however, the lightrail made it possible to stick it out.

Maintenance: 10/10
Got literally everything done I submitted fix-it requests for within two days but often came within 24 hours* (you need to wave your right to being informed of their arrival). They got some great staff on their hands.

Bathrooms: 0/10
Let me break it down for you, when the lowest point isn't where the drain is IT IS AN ISSUE (not just an issue for my drain either). I constantly find myself kicking water towards the drain because the lowest part of the tub is just before the drain. This also applies to the sink, but this isn't as bad. The shower heads honestly just suck, no other way to put it. As I am writing this I keep on lowering my grade of the bathroom. It was just bad. The storage is honestly very nice, but that's where the positives end for the bathroom.

Kitchen: 6/10
Honestly, don't have too much to complain about here. Everything is quite dated so they don't work amazingly, especially the dishwasher, but everything works as intended. The fire alarms in units are quite sensitive, my airfryer would set it off constantly. Also I suspect that the fire alarms weren't up to regulations so take that as you will. My unit did have a pantry which is extremely rare for a university apartment so that was very nice.

Overall, this averages out to a 5.33 repeating. However, I definitely weigh the bathroom and amenities (which also includes experiences) higher than the others. I give it a 4/10. The saving grace is the rooms. They're nice, but I would NEVER do a shared bedroom here and I just wouldn't choose this over some competitors. If you don't want to live in Dinky but you want to live in the stadium village area, go to 44 North.

---

Review 10
Rating: 5/5
I’m very satisfied with my experience living at University Commons over the past few months. The staff is amazing and always ready to assist with service requests, package deliveries, or any other living-related matters. The complex is student-oriented, with respectful residents and safe surroundings, conveniently located close to campus.

One thing worth mentioning is the dedicated team working at the complex, always eager to make student life enjoyable. They also organize events for us, and the amenities include a game room and a well-equipped gym.