Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/uofmn/comments/1l9ahk5/how_actually_is_university_commons_worth_it_or_nah/
How actually is University Commons? Worth it or nah?
Thinking about signing at University Commons since they’re offering big discounts right now, but I found a review online that rated it 4/10 overall — said the rooms are nice, but bathrooms suck, internet is spotty, amenities are useless, and fire alarms go off all the time.

Has anyone lived there recently? Is it that bad or worth it for the price?

I know they don't provide water the electricity, or gas, nothing is covered. How much does it come out to? Just the utilities part of it

---

Comment 1
it's not bad, although there are lots of minor problems to be aware of.

the appliances generally work, and the units have everything you'd expect from basic student apartments. maintenance can be slow at times but is basically functional. the location is obnoxious, drivers from the highway use the lot to turn around and they are rarely courteous to pedestrians. the nearest access point for transit is the green line station if you don't have a car. the walls are thin, you should hope your neighbors are good. the fourth building lacks an elevator, which makes the stairs onerous if, like me last year, they put you on one of the upper floors. the internet was fine in my experience, and i only remember the fire alarms going off unnecessarily ~twice.

overall i'd give it a 6/10, you could do a lot worse. that said, i didn't renew my lease after my first year was up and suspect there are places in dinky w/ similarly furnished units where you'd be happier at a comparable price point. i'm happy to answer more specific questions if you have them.

edit: tried to actually respond to ur post a bit better


- Reply 1
Honestly, if I had to give the description you just gave a rating I would give it a 4/10. Cause thats wild regardless of deals or location. I’ve lived in a couple places super close to campus with good bus lines that were amazing with a really affordable price, so this description sounds like living there would be a real gamble.

---

Comment 2
It’s a cheaper option but it’s still good for the price you pay

---

Comment 3
Oh, I lived there for a few years, but that was over ten years ago. Back then I liked them overall. They screwed me on the deposit, but I mean most landlords do.

---

Comment 4
my friend lived there and said it was fine, but the biggest issue is no nearby bus stops. you'll have to walk 10 minutes or so to the nearest bus stop or light rail which is annoying compared to other places with bus stops right outside the door

---

Comment 5
I lived there a year ago; it was solid, but they will nickel and dime you on the way out. It has to look like a new, unused unit, or they'll charge you several hundred for cleaning fees. They charged me for replacing the couches, as the cheap material on the couches was getting shredded just from normal use. The showers are a nightmare; they didn't clean them, they just painted over the dirt, and then the paint chipped and clogged both showers in my unit. Furniture was pretty comfy, though.

Also, it gets annoying that they're constantly doing maintenance. I can count at least 10 times maintenance staff came into my apartment. Utilities were around $50-60/month, depending on how much you crank the AC, which doesn't work either (it's either on or off, doesn't auto turn off at a specific temp).

If you want to live in that area, you should look at Thornton Place. That's where I'm at right now. Better maintenance/staff, better, more spacious apartments, and much cheaper.